In principle, we
can use any kind of
function approximation for
reinforcement learning.
Linear function approximation is
an important special case.
It is simple enough that
we can understand it well,
but it is still quite
powerful in general.
In fact, linear
function approximation
with TD has been used
to build Atari agents that exceed
human performance in many games.
After watching this video,
you'll be able to derive
the TD update with
linear function approximation,
understand that tabular TD as
a special case of linear
semi gradient TD,
and understand why we care about
linear TD as a special case.
Recall the update for
semi gradient TD.
It adjusts the weights and
the direction of the TD air times
the gradient of
the approximate value function
with respect to the weights.
In the linear case,
the gradient of
the approximate value for
a state is just the feature
vector for that state.
So the update for semi gradient
TD would look like this.
The weight is updated
in the direction of
the feature vector
times the TD air.
If a feature is large,
then the corresponding weight can
have a large impact
on the prediction.
On the other hand if
the feature is zero,
then that weight has no impact on
the prediction and the gradient
is therefore zero.
The fixed basis given by
the expert design features
has a large impact on the update.
If well-designed, we can get
effective value
function approximation
with a simple update.
We already saw how linear value
function approximation is
a strict generalization of
tabular value function
approximation.
We can show that linear TD
is a strict generalization
of both tabular TD and TD
with state aggregation.
Let's take a closer look
at the algorithm to
see this explicitly
for tabular TD.
Imagine we have a tabular
state representation.
Only one feature
will be equal to one
corresponding to
the current state
and the rest will be zero.
The value approximation
for a state is equal to
the weight associated
with the current state.
We can therefore think of
the weight vector as
just a table of values,
one for each state.
Here's the update for semi
gradient TD with
these tabular features.
In the update,
the feature vector X of
ST selects a single weight
associated with
the current state.
This weight is just the value
estimate for the state.
So this update corresponds to
the tabular TD update we
saw in a previous course.
We can use the same analysis
to show that TD with
state aggregation is also
a special case of linear TD.
But why do we care so much about
the special case of
linear function approximation?
Linear methods are simpler to
understand and analyze
mathematically.
Much of the theory of
TD learning is for
the linear setting.
We will discuss this
more in the next video.
In some applications,
you may have access to
expert knowledge to help
you design good features.
Perhaps, you are
the domain expert or
perhaps you can
talk to someone who
knows a lot about
your application.
If we can design
these features well,
then we can expect
linear methods to learn
quickly and achieve
good prediction accuracy.
Feature design provides one way
to incorporate
domain knowledge that can
result in good performance in
practice. That's it for today.
We talked about
the linear TD update,
how tabular TD is
a special case of linear
semi gradient TD,
and why linear function
approximation might
be useful. See you next time.